[MUSIC]
Links pretty much what
makes the web what it is.
In this lecture, we're going to take
a look at different types of links and
how you could create
them in your HTML page.
So the first type of links that
we're going to take a look at
are internal links.
Here I am looking at the file
called links-internal.html,
and it's located in
the examples/Lecture09 folder.
And here we have a couple of links
we're going to take a look at.
Now the way you create links
is by specifying an a element
with an attribute href.
And href stands for hypertext reference.
The value of href can either be
a relative or an absolute URL.
In our case here,
since we're discussing internal links
which are links that point to internal
web pages of the where application,
the links we're showing
are all relative URL links.
However we could still have an even
absolute URL links as long as they point,
again, to the same web
application that we're in.
Since we're providing no
directory information,
the browser will assume that
same-directory.html is a file that lives
in the same directory
as links-internal.html.
It's also a very good idea to always
specify a title attribute for the a tag.
The title attribute is
used by the screen readers
that help the visually impaired
people get through the web page.
The content in between the opening and
closing a tags is the content
you're going to see in the web page, when
it is served and on which you're going to
be able to click to go to the href
that the a tag is configured with.
Note the second example of our a tag.
In this example, we're surrounding
a div tag with our anchor tag.
In other words,
this div tag is going to be
the content over our link on which
were going to be able to click.
Let's go ahead and
see what this look like in the browser?
Okay.
So, here is our internal links page, and
we have a couple of links.
One it says linking to a file in the same
directory, and the one is the DIV.
That's the a tag surrounding
the div tag that says DIV linking
to a file in the same directory.
And if we click that, we're going
to go to this same-directory.html
page which basically just provides
a link back to our original page.
What's interesting to note
here is that the first link,
linking to a file in the same directory,
is clearly an inline tag since it's not
forcing itself to go to a new line.
But yet in the second case, div linking
to a file in the same directory,
we're surrounding the div
tag with our a tag.
So what's going on here?
Are we using block level element,
the div, inside an inline element?
Well, turns out things
are little bit more interesting.
Let's take a look at the a tag as
defined in the W3C specification.
If you take a look closely,
the a tag is both a flow content and
a phrasing content.
In other words, to map it back to
the HTML four days, the a tag in
the HTML5 is both an inline element and
a block level element at the same time.
And this is what allows us to take the a
tag and surround a div tag inside of it.
The authors of the HTML5 specification
realized that there are a lot of
times where you would like to be
able to click on a whole region.
And a most common occurrence of
that is on when you have a logo or
some sort of a company name in the top
left corner for example, of your webpage.
People expect to be able
to click on that and
be able to go to the front
page of the company.
Prior to HTML5,
people had to use all kinds of tricks
in order to achieve that effect because
the a tag was only an inline tag, and
you weren't really able to wrap
the a tag around the div tag.
Next, let's take a look at
an example of an external link.
Here we are in Sublime Text again and
looking at the file called
links-external.html which is again located
in the examples/ Lecture09 folder.
And this document basically
contains just a single link.
There's really nothing super special about
external links other that their href value
usually starts with http://
because it's usually the case
that external links are hosted on
a different domain name than your website.
However, there's one feature of the a
element that I would like to demonstrate
that is quite often used in
conjunction with external links.
And that is the target attribute.
Target attribute,
when it's set to the value _blank,
forces the browser to open this
page in a new tab or a new window.
The reason that's advantageous is because
nowadays unfortunately people have a very
short attention span, and if you take them
from your website to a different website,
it is a very good chance that they
will never come back to your site.
And usually you don't want them
to leave your site completely.
So target="_blank" is very
useful in that regard.
Let's a take a look at
this page in the browser.
And here's the page in the browser.
And if we click this link, Coursera
Facebook Page, it will open a new tab and
will load the Facebook page
pointed to by that link.
Coincidentally, this is a Facebook page I
created for the two courses I'm teaching
on Coursera which is at
facebook.com/CourseraWebDev.
So please like this page, and follow
it as I'll be posting some optional but
interesting and relevant material.
Another type of link that is
extremely important to know about
is a fragment identifier.
So here I'm in again in Sublime Text
in links-same-page.html.
That is located in
examples/Lecture09 folder.
And as you could see,
the links that have set up here
all have a very specific
format in the href attribute.
It's a # followed by some name like
section1, section2, and so on.
Now what these links are pointing
to is a section of our page.
Now you could identify a section
a couple of different ways.
You can have in any tag that has
an id with that section name.
Notice that the section name
does not contain the # sign.
Only the link to that
section contains the # sign.
That's one way to identify
a section within the page.
Another way is, if we scroll down all
the way to the bottom of the page,
is to create an anchor tag
with a name attribute and
name the section very similarly
to the way you name a section id.
The way you refer to these
sections is exactly the same,
you put a # in front of
the name of the section and
stick that value in the href
attribute of an anchor tag.
So let's take a look at this
document in the browser.
And here's the document.
As you can see,
we have six different links.
And if we click on any one of these links,
it will take us to the section of the page
that is marked with that particular id.
If we scroll all the way down,
we even have a back to the top link
which basically points to
all the way to the top.
Now, the top is right here, and
if you look at the code and
scroll all the way up,
we have an h1 tag that has an id
with top which allows us to scroll all
the way to the bottom of the page,
see that link, and
jump right back to the top.
What's really neat about fragment
identifiers is if you click on one and
you have them in URL,
you could copy and paste this URL and
send it to a friend as a bookmark.
And when they paste it into their browser,
they will be taken to this page and
jump straight to the section that was
pointed to by the fragment identifier.
Now I am on my local hard drive, and
I'm not on a server so obviously sending
this link that points to my local hard
drive is not going to do any good.
But if we're on a server, this link with
the section identifier would have taken
anybody anywhere, with a connection to
the internet, to the proper page and
to the proper section of that page.
While fragment identifiers are very useful
in order to jump to different parts of
the same page, recently they have become
even more important as they're used for
navigation within the SPA or
Single Page Applications.
And SPA, Single Page Applications
have become extremely popular.
So knowing how fragment identifiers
work is an important step towards
being able to code single
page applications.